README.md, before:

# React JS Froala WYSIWYG Editor

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-froala-wysiwyg)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-froala-wysiwyg)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/react-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-froala-wysiwyg)

react-froala-wyswiyg provides React bindings to the Froala WYSIWYG editor.

_This is a fork of [froala/react-froala-wysiwyg](https://github.com/froala/react-froala-wysiwyg) which is kept up-to-date with fixes needed by [Yolk](https://github.com/Yolk-HQ)._

## Installation

```bash
npm install @yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg --save
```

## Usage

```jsx
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";

// Require Editor CSS files.
import "froala-editor/css/froala_style.min.css";
import "froala-editor/css/froala_editor.pkgd.min.css";

import FroalaEditor from "@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg";

// Import all Froala Editor plugins;
// import 'froala-editor/js/plugins.pkgd.min.js';

// Import a single Froala Editor plugin.
// import 'froala-editor/js/plugins/align.min.js';

// Import a language file.
// import 'froala-editor/js/languages/de.js';

// Include font-awesome css if required.
// import 'font-awesome/css/font-awesome.css';
// install using "npm install font-awesome --save"

// Include special components if required.
// import FroalaEditorView from '@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg/FroalaEditorView';
// import FroalaEditorA from '@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg/FroalaEditorA';
// import FroalaEditorButton from '@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg/FroalaEditorButton';
// import FroalaEditorImg from '@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg/FroalaEditorImg';
// import FroalaEditorInput from '@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg/FroalaEditorInput';

// Render Froala Editor component.
ReactDOM.render(
  <FroalaEditor tag="textarea" />,
  document.getElementById("editor")
);
```

_Note: for CSS imports to work, you must configure your application using e.g. [css-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/css-loader) or [next-css](https://github.com/Yolk-HQ/next-css)._

#### Pass properties to the wrapping DOM element

```js
<FroalaEditor
  tag="textarea"
  config={this.config}
  model={this.state.model}
  onModelChange={this.handleModelChange}
/>
```

**tag** attr is used to tell on which tag the editor is initialized.

There are special tags: **a**, **button**, **img**, **input**. Do not use them in FroalaEditor component. To initialize the editor on a special tag, use `FroalaEditorA`, `FroalaEditorButton`, `FroalaEditorImg` and `FroalaEditorInput` components.

### Config

You can pass editor options as component attribute (optional).

`config={this.config}`

You can pass any existing Froala option. Consult the [Froala documentation](https://www.froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/options) to view the list of all the available options:

```js
config={{
  placeholderText: 'Edit Your Content Here!',
  charCounterCount: false
}}
```

Aditional option is used:

- **immediateReactModelUpdate**: (default: false) This option updates the React model as soon as a key is released in the editor. Note that it may affect performances.

### Events and Methods

Events can be passed in with the options, with a key events and object where the key is the event name and the value is the callback function.

```js
config={{
  placeholder: "Edit Me",
  events : {
    'focus' : function(e, editor) {
      console.log(editor.selection.get());
    }
  }
}}
```

Using the editor instance from the arguments of the callback you can call editor methods as described in the [method docs](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/methods).

Froala events are described in the [events docs](https://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/events).

### Custom Buttons

You can pass the custom buttons to the editor by following way:

```javascript
import FroalaEditor from "froala-editor";
FroalaEditor.DefineIcon("alert", { NAME: "info", SVG_KEY: "help" });
FroalaEditor.RegisterCommand("alert", {
  title: "Hello",
  focus: false,
  undo: false,
  refreshAfterCallback: false,
  callback: function() {
    alert("Hello!");
  }
});

FroalaEditor.DefineIcon("clear", { NAME: "remove", SVG_KEY: "remove" });
FroalaEditor.RegisterCommand("clear", {
  title: "Clear HTML",
  focus: false,
  undo: true,
  refreshAfterCallback: true,
  callback: function() {
    this.html.set("");
    this.events.focus();
  }
});

FroalaEditor.DefineIcon("insert", { NAME: "plus", SVG_KEY: "add" });
FroalaEditor.RegisterCommand("insert", {
  title: "Insert HTML",
  focus: true,
  undo: true,
  refreshAfterCallback: true,
  callback: function() {
    this.html.insert("My New HTML");
  }
});
```

Now you can use these buttons in options:

```javascript
toolbarButtons: [['undo', 'redo' , 'bold'], ['alert', 'clear', 'insert']],

```

### Model

The WYSIWYG HTML editor content model.

`model = {this.state.model}`

Two way binding:

```jsx
import React from 'react';

class EditorComponent extends React.Component {
  constructor () {
    super();

    this.handleModelChange = this.handleModelChange.bind(this);

    this.state = {
      model: 'Example text'
    };
  }

  handleModelChange: function(model) {
    this.setState({
      model: model
    });
  }

  render () {
    return <FroalaEditor
			  model={this.state.model}
			  onModelChange={this.handleModelChange}
           />
  }
}
```

To achieve one way binding and pass only the initial editor content, simply do not pass `onModelChange` attribute.

Use the content in other places:

```js
<input value={this.state.model} />
```

### Special tags

You can also use the editor on **img**, **button**, **input** and **a** tags:

```js
<FroalaEditorImg
  config={this.config}
/>
<FroalaEditorButton
  config={this.config}
/>
<FroalaEditorInput
  config={this.config}
/>
<FroalaEditorA
  config={this.config}
/>
```

The model must be an object containing the attributes for your special tags. Example:

```js
constructor () {
  super();

  this.handleModelChange = this.handleModelChange.bind(this);

  this.state = {
    model: {src: 'path/to/image.jpg'}
  };
}
```

- The model can contain a special attribute named **innerHTML** which inserts innerHTML in the element: If you are using 'button' tag, you can specify the button text like this:

```js
this.state = {
  model: { innerHTML: "Click Me" }
};
```

As the button text is modified by the editor, the **innerHTML** attribute from buttonModel model will be modified too.

#### Specific option for special tags

- **reactIgnoreAttrs**: (default: null) This option is an array of attributes that you want to ignore when the editor updates the froalaModel:

```js
config: {
 reactIgnoreAttrs: ['class', 'id']
},
```

## Manual Instantiation

Gets the functionality to operate on the editor: create, destroy and get editor instance. Use it if you want to manually initialize the editor.

`onManualControllerReady={this.handleManualController}`

```js
handleManualController: function(initControls) {
  //...
}
```

The object received by the function will contain the following methods:

- **initialize**: Call this method to initialize the Froala Editor
- **destroy**: Call this method to destroy the Froala Editor
- **getEditor**: Call this method to retrieve the editor that was created. This method will return _null_ if the editor was not yet created

## Displaying HTML

To display content created with the froala editor use the `FroalaEditorView` component.

```js
<FroalaEditor
  model={this.state.content}
  onModelChange={this.handleModelChange}
/>
<FroalaEditorView
  model={this.state.content}
/>
```

## License

The `react-froala-wyswiyg` project is under MIT license. However, in order to use Froala WYSIWYG HTML Editor plugin you should purchase a license for it.

Froala Editor has [3 different licenses](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/pricing) for commercial use.
For details please see [License Agreement](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/terms).

## Development environment setup

If you want to contribute to react-froala-wyswiyg, you will first need to install the required tools to get the project going.

#### Install dependencies

    $ npm install

#### Build

    $ npm run build

#### Run Demo

    $ npm run demo

Commit message:

chore(docs): publishing & upstream info

README.md, after:

# React JS Froala WYSIWYG Editor

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-froala-wysiwyg)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-froala-wysiwyg)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/react-froala-wysiwyg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-froala-wysiwyg)

react-froala-wyswiyg provides React bindings to the Froala WYSIWYG editor.

_This is a fork of [froala/react-froala-wysiwyg](https://github.com/froala/react-froala-wysiwyg) which is kept up-to-date with fixes needed by [Yolk](https://github.com/Yolk-HQ)._

## Publishing

This project uses [semantic-release](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/). Follow the [Angular commit conventions](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog/tree/816407a39e08179d1726b89d32942607f0756c93/packages/conventional-changelog-angular), and a release will be automatically published after merging code into `master`.

## Updating with upstream changes

To integrate the latest upstream changes from [froala/react-froala-wysiwyg](https://github.com/froala/react-froala-wysiwyg):

```shell
$ git remote add upstream https://github.com/froala/react-froala-wysiwyg.git
$ git checkout master
$ git checkout -b upstream-update
$ git pull upstream master
$ # fix conflicts
$ git commit
$ git push -u origin HEAD
```

Then make a pull request from `upstream-update` to `master`.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg --save
```

## Usage

```jsx
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";

// Require Editor CSS files.
import "froala-editor/css/froala_style.min.css";
import "froala-editor/css/froala_editor.pkgd.min.css";

import FroalaEditor from "@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg";

// Import all Froala Editor plugins;
// import 'froala-editor/js/plugins.pkgd.min.js';

// Import a single Froala Editor plugin.
// import 'froala-editor/js/plugins/align.min.js';

// Import a language file.
// import 'froala-editor/js/languages/de.js';

// Include font-awesome css if required.
// import 'font-awesome/css/font-awesome.css';
// install using "npm install font-awesome --save"

// Include special components if required.
// import FroalaEditorView from '@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg/FroalaEditorView';
// import FroalaEditorA from '@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg/FroalaEditorA';
// import FroalaEditorButton from '@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg/FroalaEditorButton';
// import FroalaEditorImg from '@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg/FroalaEditorImg';
// import FroalaEditorInput from '@yolkai/react-froala-wysiwyg/FroalaEditorInput';

// Render Froala Editor component.
ReactDOM.render(
  <FroalaEditor tag="textarea" />,
  document.getElementById("editor")
);
```

_Note: for CSS imports to work, you must configure your application using e.g. [css-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/css-loader) or [next-css](https://github.com/Yolk-HQ/next-css)._

#### Pass properties to the wrapping DOM element

```js
<FroalaEditor
  tag="textarea"
  config={this.config}
  model={this.state.model}
  onModelChange={this.handleModelChange}
/>
```

**tag** attr is used to tell on which tag the editor is initialized.

There are special tags: **a**, **button**, **img**, **input**. Do not use them in FroalaEditor component. To initialize the editor on a special tag, use `FroalaEditorA`, `FroalaEditorButton`, `FroalaEditorImg` and `FroalaEditorInput` components.

### Config

You can pass editor options as component attribute (optional).

`config={this.config}`

You can pass any existing Froala option. Consult the [Froala documentation](https://www.froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/options) to view the list of all the available options:

```js
config={{
  placeholderText: 'Edit Your Content Here!',
  charCounterCount: false
}}
```

Aditional option is used:

- **immediateReactModelUpdate**: (default: false) This option updates the React model as soon as a key is released in the editor. Note that it may affect performances.

### Events and Methods

Events can be passed in with the options, with a key events and object where the key is the event name and the value is the callback function.

```js
config={{
  placeholder: "Edit Me",
  events : {
    'focus' : function(e, editor) {
      console.log(editor.selection.get());
    }
  }
}}
```

Using the editor instance from the arguments of the callback you can call editor methods as described in the [method docs](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/methods).

Froala events are described in the [events docs](https://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/docs/events).

### Custom Buttons

You can pass the custom buttons to the editor by following way:

```javascript
import FroalaEditor from "froala-editor";
FroalaEditor.DefineIcon("alert", { NAME: "info", SVG_KEY: "help" });
FroalaEditor.RegisterCommand("alert", {
  title: "Hello",
  focus: false,
  undo: false,
  refreshAfterCallback: false,
  callback: function() {
    alert("Hello!");
  }
});

FroalaEditor.DefineIcon("clear", { NAME: "remove", SVG_KEY: "remove" });
FroalaEditor.RegisterCommand("clear", {
  title: "Clear HTML",
  focus: false,
  undo: true,
  refreshAfterCallback: true,
  callback: function() {
    this.html.set("");
    this.events.focus();
  }
});

FroalaEditor.DefineIcon("insert", { NAME: "plus", SVG_KEY: "add" });
FroalaEditor.RegisterCommand("insert", {
  title: "Insert HTML",
  focus: true,
  undo: true,
  refreshAfterCallback: true,
  callback: function() {
    this.html.insert("My New HTML");
  }
});
```

Now you can use these buttons in options:

```javascript
toolbarButtons: [['undo', 'redo' , 'bold'], ['alert', 'clear', 'insert']],

```

### Model

The WYSIWYG HTML editor content model.

`model = {this.state.model}`

Two way binding:

```jsx
import React from 'react';

class EditorComponent extends React.Component {
  constructor () {
    super();

    this.handleModelChange = this.handleModelChange.bind(this);

    this.state = {
      model: 'Example text'
    };
  }

  handleModelChange: function(model) {
    this.setState({
      model: model
    });
  }

  render () {
    return <FroalaEditor
			  model={this.state.model}
			  onModelChange={this.handleModelChange}
           />
  }
}
```

To achieve one way binding and pass only the initial editor content, simply do not pass `onModelChange` attribute.

Use the content in other places:

```js
<input value={this.state.model} />
```

### Special tags

You can also use the editor on **img**, **button**, **input** and **a** tags:

```js
<FroalaEditorImg
  config={this.config}
/>
<FroalaEditorButton
  config={this.config}
/>
<FroalaEditorInput
  config={this.config}
/>
<FroalaEditorA
  config={this.config}
/>
```

The model must be an object containing the attributes for your special tags. Example:

```js
constructor () {
  super();

  this.handleModelChange = this.handleModelChange.bind(this);

  this.state = {
    model: {src: 'path/to/image.jpg'}
  };
}
```

- The model can contain a special attribute named **innerHTML** which inserts innerHTML in the element: If you are using 'button' tag, you can specify the button text like this:

```js
this.state = {
  model: { innerHTML: "Click Me" }
};
```

As the button text is modified by the editor, the **innerHTML** attribute from buttonModel model will be modified too.

#### Specific option for special tags

- **reactIgnoreAttrs**: (default: null) This option is an array of attributes that you want to ignore when the editor updates the froalaModel:

```js
config: {
 reactIgnoreAttrs: ['class', 'id']
},
```

## Manual Instantiation

Gets the functionality to operate on the editor: create, destroy and get editor instance. Use it if you want to manually initialize the editor.

`onManualControllerReady={this.handleManualController}`

```js
handleManualController: function(initControls) {
  //...
}
```

The object received by the function will contain the following methods:

- **initialize**: Call this method to initialize the Froala Editor
- **destroy**: Call this method to destroy the Froala Editor
- **getEditor**: Call this method to retrieve the editor that was created. This method will return _null_ if the editor was not yet created

## Displaying HTML

To display content created with the froala editor use the `FroalaEditorView` component.

```js
<FroalaEditor
  model={this.state.content}
  onModelChange={this.handleModelChange}
/>
<FroalaEditorView
  model={this.state.content}
/>
```

## License

The `react-froala-wyswiyg` project is under MIT license. However, in order to use Froala WYSIWYG HTML Editor plugin you should purchase a license for it.

Froala Editor has [3 different licenses](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/pricing) for commercial use.
For details please see [License Agreement](http://froala.com/wysiwyg-editor/terms).

## Development environment setup

If you want to contribute to react-froala-wyswiyg, you will first need to install the required tools to get the project going.

#### Install dependencies

    $ npm install

#### Build

    $ npm run build

#### Run Demo

    $ npm run demo
